README.md, before:

Cowboy
======

Cowboy is a small, fast and modular HTTP server written in Erlang.

Goals
-----

Cowboy aims to provide a **complete** HTTP stack in a **small** code base.
It is optimized for **low latency** and **low memory usage**, in parts
because it uses **binary strings**.

Cowboy provides **routing** capabilities, selectively dispatching requests
to handlers written in Erlang.

Because it uses Ranch for managing connections, Cowboy can easily be
**embedded** in any other application.

No parameterized module. No process dictionary. **Clean** Erlang code.

Sponsors
--------

The SPDY protocol development is sponsored
by [LeoFS Cloud Storage](http://www.leofs.org).

Getting Started
---------------

 *  [Read the guide](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/HEAD/guide)
 *  [Check the manual](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/HEAD/manual)
 *  Look at the examples in the `examples/` directory

Support
-------

 *  Official IRC Channel: #ninenines on irc.freenode.net
 *  [Mailing Lists](http://lists.ninenines.eu)
 *  [Commercial Support](http://ninenines.eu/support)

Commit message:

Renaming cowboy to cowboyku
This is a fork required for an (currently) private library that we hope
to open source, and make usable along with the original cowboy; hence
the renaming.

README.md, after:

Cowboyku
========

Cowboy is a small, fast and modular HTTP server written in Erlang.
Cowboyku is a fork of that server used in conjunction with
[vegur](https://github.com/heroku/vegur), Heroku's HTTP proxy library.

It is functionally equivalent to Cowboy 0.10.0, with custom patches added in to
function properly as a proxy's web server (Proxies and HTTP servers have
slitghly varying specifications) and parser.

Cowboyku is not expected to be used standalone. It is rather a fork used so
that both Cowboy and Vegur might be used from within the same virtual machine
without holding users of Cowboy back. This allows Heroku to maintain a stable
proxy, upgraded at a pace we judge adequate for the production applications on
our platform, while any user of the proxy might develop interfaces and matching
work on a newer Cowboy version as required.

There is no long-term guarantee this library will be used or maintained.
Depending on developments in the Cowboy servers and Heroku's Routing team
agenda, we might eventually just drop this fork and go back to mainline (or
update it) without further notice.

Sponsors of the Original project
--------------------------------

The SPDY protocol development is sponsored
by [LeoFS Cloud Storage](http://www.leofs.org).

The project is currently sponsored by [Kato.im](https://kato.im/).
