guide/erlang_beginners.md, before:

Erlang for beginners
====================

Chances are you are interested in using Cowboy, but have
no idea how to write an Erlang program. Fear not! This
chapter will help you get started.

We recommend two books for beginners. You should read them
both at some point, as they cover Erlang from two entirely
different perspectives.

Learn You Some Erlang for Great Good!
-------------------------------------

The quickest way to get started with Erlang is by reading
a book with the funny name of [LYSE](http://learnyousomeerlang.com),
as we affectionately call it.

It will get right into the syntax and quickly answer the questions
a beginner would ask themselves, all the while showing funny
pictures and making insightful jokes.

You can read an early version of the book online for free,
but you really should buy the much more refined paper and
ebook versions.

Programming Erlang
------------------

After writing some code, you will probably want to understand
the very concepts that make Erlang what it is today. These
are best explained by Joe Armstrong, the godfather of Erlang,
in his book [Programming Erlang](http://pragprog.com/book/jaerlang2/programming-erlang).

Instead of going into every single details of the language,
Joe focuses on the central concepts behind Erlang, and shows
you how they can be used to write a variety of different
applications.

At the time of writing, the 2nd edition of the book is in beta,
and includes a few details about upcoming Erlang features that
cannot be used today. Choose the edition you want, then get
reading!

Commit message:

Renaming cowboy to cowboyku
This is a fork required for an (currently) private library that we hope
to open source, and make usable along with the original cowboy; hence
the renaming.

guide/erlang_beginners.md, after:

Erlang for beginners
====================

Chances are you are interested in using Cowboy, but have
no idea how to write an Erlang program. Fear not! This
chapter will help you get started.

Do note that this is however a repository for `Cowboyku`, a
Heroku fork of Cowboy for our specific routing and proxying
needs.

Nevertheless, we recommend two books for beginners. You
should read them both at some point, as they cover Erlang
from two entirely different perspectives.

Learn You Some Erlang for Great Good!
-------------------------------------

The quickest way to get started with Erlang is by reading
a book with the funny name of [LYSE](http://learnyousomeerlang.com),
as we affectionately call it.

It will get right into the syntax and quickly answer the questions
a beginner would ask themselves, all the while showing funny
pictures and making insightful jokes.

You can read an early version of the book online for free,
but you really should buy the much more refined paper and
ebook versions.

Programming Erlang
------------------

After writing some code, you will probably want to understand
the very concepts that make Erlang what it is today. These
are best explained by Joe Armstrong, the godfather of Erlang,
in his book [Programming Erlang](http://pragprog.com/book/jaerlang2/programming-erlang).

Instead of going into every single details of the language,
Joe focuses on the central concepts behind Erlang, and shows
you how they can be used to write a variety of different
applications.

At the time of writing, the 2nd edition of the book is in beta,
and includes a few details about upcoming Erlang features that
cannot be used today. Choose the edition you want, then get
reading!
