guide/handlers.md, before:

Handlers
========

Purpose
-------

Handlers are Erlang modules that represent a resource.

Handlers must process the request and send a reply. The nature of the
reply will vary between handlers.

Different kinds of handlers can be combined in a single module. This
allows a module to handle both websocket and long-polling code in a
single place, for example.

Protocol upgrades
-----------------

Cowboy features many different handlers: HTTP handlers, loop handlers,
websocket handlers, REST handlers and static handlers. All of them
have a common entry point: the `init/3` function.

By default, Cowboy considers your handler to be an HTTP handler.

To switch to a different protocol, like, for example, Websocket,
you must perform a protocol upgrade. This is done by returning
a protocol upgrade tuple at the end of `init/3`.

The following snippet upgrades the handler to `my_protocol`.

``` erlang
init(_Any, _Req, _Opts) ->
    {upgrade, protocol, my_protocol}.
```

Cowboy comes with two protocol upgrades: `cowboy_rest` and
`cowboy_websocket`. Use these values in place of `my_protocol`
to use them.

Custom protocol upgrades
------------------------

The `my_protocol` module above will be used for further processing
of the request. It should use the `cowboy_sub_protocol` behaviour,
which requires only one callback, `upgrade/4`.

It receives the request object, the middleware environment, and
the handler this request has been routed to along with its options.

``` erlang
upgrade(Req, Env, Handler, HandlerOpts) ->
    %% ...
```

This callback is expected to behave like any middleware. Please
see the corresponding chapter for more information.

Commit message:

Renaming cowboy to cowboyku
This is a fork required for an (currently) private library that we hope
to open source, and make usable along with the original cowboy; hence
the renaming.

guide/handlers.md, after:

Handlers
========

Purpose
-------

Handlers are Erlang modules that represent a resource.

Handlers must process the request and send a reply. The nature of the
reply will vary between handlers.

Different kinds of handlers can be combined in a single module. This
allows a module to handle both websocket and long-polling code in a
single place, for example.

Protocol upgrades
-----------------

Cowboyku features many different handlers: HTTP handlers, loop handlers,
websocket handlers, REST handlers and static handlers. All of them
have a common entry point: the `init/3` function.

By default, Cowboyku considers your handler to be an HTTP handler.

To switch to a different protocol, like, for example, Websocket,
you must perform a protocol upgrade. This is done by returning
a protocol upgrade tuple at the end of `init/3`.

The following snippet upgrades the handler to `my_protocol`.

``` erlang
init(_Any, _Req, _Opts) ->
    {upgrade, protocol, my_protocol}.
```

Cowboyku comes with two protocol upgrades: `cowboyku_rest` and
`cowboyku_websocket`. Use these values in place of `my_protocol`
to use them.

Custom protocol upgrades
------------------------

The `my_protocol` module above will be used for further processing
of the request. It should use the `cowboyku_sub_protocol` behaviour,
which requires only one callback, `upgrade/4`.

It receives the request object, the middleware environment, and
the handler this request has been routed to along with its options.

``` erlang
upgrade(Req, Env, Handler, HandlerOpts) ->
    %% ...
```

This callback is expected to behave like any middleware. Please
see the corresponding chapter for more information.
